<?xml version="1.0" encoding="ISO-8859-1"?>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/xsl" href="support/html-layout.xsl"?>
<document>
  <!-- About Me -->
  <section title="Rajsekar Manokaran">
    I am a fourth year graduate student at the <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu">Princeton University</a>.  Before
    coming here, I was an undergraduate at the <a href="http://www.cse.iitm.ac.in">Indian Institute of Technology,
    Madras</a>.  Madras (n&#233;e and now <wiki>Chennai</wiki>) is also the city I grew up in.
  </section>

  <!-- Research Interests -->
  <section title="Research Interests"> I am interested in theoretical computer science, specifically approximation
    algorithms and hardness of approximation.

    My advisor is <author name="sanjeev"/>.  Recently, I've been working on limits on approximation achieved by
    mathematical relaxations and their relation to computational hardness.
  </section>

  <!-- My co-authors -->
  <authors>
    <person name="sanjeev"><a href="http://www.cs.princeto.edu/~arora">Sanjeev&#160;Arora</a></person>

    <person name="kabi">Abishek Kumarasubramanian</person>
    <person name="pandu"><a href="http://www.cse.iitm.ac.in/~rangan/">C.&#160;Pandu&#160;Rangan</a></person>
    <person name="ravich">Ravichadra&#160;Chakinala</person>
    <person name="noubir"><a href="http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/noubir/">Guevara&#160;Noubir</a></person>

    <person name="koods"><a href="http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/koods/">Ravi&#160;Sundaram</a></person>
    <person name="rraj"><a href="http://www.ccs.neu.edu/home/rraj/">Rajmohan&#160;Rajaraman</a></person>
    <person name="kofi"><a href="http://www.cs.tufts.edu/~laing/">Kofi&#160;Laing</a></person>

    <person name="seffi"><a href="http://www.cs.technion.ac.il/people/naor/">Joseph&#160;(Seffi)&#160;Naor</a></person>
    <person name="prasad"><a href="http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/pnagaraj/">Prasad&#160;Raghavendra</a></person>
    <person name="roy">Roy&#160;Schwartz</person>

    <person name="venkat"><a href="http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~venkatg/">Venkatesan&#160;Guruswami</a></person>
    <person name="moses"><a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~moses/">Moses&#160;Charikar</a></person>
    <person name="kostya"><a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~kmakaryc/">Konstantin&#160;Makarychev</a></person>
    <person name="maxim"><a href="http://www.research.ibm.com/people/s/sviri/sviridenko.html">Maxim&#160;Sviridenko</a></person>
    <person name="hastad"><a href="http://www.nada.kth.se/~johanh/">Johan&#160;H&#x00E5;stad</a></person>
    <person name="amit">Amit&#160;Kumar</person>
    <person name="madhur"><a href="http://www.eecs.berkeley.edu/~madhurt/">Madhur&#160;Tulsiani</a></person>
    <person name="nisheeth"><a href="http://domino.research.ibm.com/comm/research_people.nsf/pages/vishnoi.index.html">Nisheeth&#160;ishnoi</a></person>
  </authors>

  <!-- Publications -->
  <section title="Publications">
    <publications>

      <paper id="ChakinalaKMNRS06">
	<title>Steganographic Communication in Ordered Channels</title>
	<coauthors>
	  <author name="ravich"/>, <author name="kabi"/>, <author name="noubir"/>, <author name="pandu"/>, and
	  <author name="koods"/>
	</coauthors>
	<year>2006</year>

	<abstract>In this paper we focus on estimating the amount of information that can be embedded in the sequencing
	  of packets in ordered channels.
	</abstract>
	<conf>in Proceedings of Information Hiding, IH2006, LNCS, 2006</conf>
      </paper>

      <paper id="ChakinalaKLMRR06">
	<title>Playing Push vs Pull: Models and Algorithms for Disseminating Dynamic Data in Networks</title>
	<coauthors>
	  <author name="ravich"/>, <author name="kabi"/>, <author name="kofi"/>, <author name="pandu"/>, and
	  <author name="rraj"/>
	</coauthors>
	<year>2006</year>

	<abstract>In this paper, we consider the task of efficiently relaying the dynamically changing data objects to
	  the sinks from their sources of interest.  We study the problem of choosing push sets and pull sets to
	  minimize total global communication while satisfying all communication requirements.
	</abstract>
	<conf>in Proceedings of the 18th Annual ACM Symposium on Parallel Algorithms and Architectures, July 2006</conf>
      </paper>

      <paper id="ManokaranNRS08">
	<title>SDP Gaps and UGC Hardness for Multiway Cut, $ 0 $-Extension and Metric Labelling</title>
	<coauthors>
	  <author name="seffi"/>, <author name="prasad"/>, and <author name="roy"/>
	</coauthors>
	<year>2008</year>

	<abstract>In this paper, we show a direct way to convert linear programming integrality gaps for the
	  Multiwaycut, $0$-extension, and Metric Labeling problems into UGC-based hardness results.
	</abstract>
	<conf>in STOC 2008</conf>

	<filelink type="PDF">papers/mlpaper.pdf</filelink>
	<filelink type="Postscript">papers/mlpaper.ps</filelink>
      </paper>


      <paper id="GuruswamiMR08">
	<title>Beating the Random Ordering is Hard: Inapproximability of Maximum Acyclic Subgraph</title>
	<coauthors>
	  <author name="venkat"/> and <author name="prasad"/>
	</coauthors>
	<year>2008</year>

	<abstract>We prove that approximating the Maximum Acyclic Subgraph problem within a factor better than $1/2$ is
	  Unique-Games hard.  Our results also give a super-constant factor inapproximability result for the Feedback
	  Arc Set problem.  Using our reductions, we also obtain SDP integrality gaps for both the problems.
	</abstract>
	<conf>in FOCS 2008 (invited to SICOMP special issue for FOCS 2008)</conf>

	<filelink type="PDF">papers/mas.pdf</filelink>
	<filelink type="Postscript">papers/mas.ps</filelink>
      </paper>

      <paper id="CharikarGM09">
	<title>Every Permutation CSP of arity 3 is Approximation Resistant</title>
	<coauthors><author name="moses"/> and <author name="venkat"/></coauthors>
	<year>2009</year>

	<abstract>Extending the results of the <a href="#GuruswamiMR08">paper</a> on the inapproximability of Max Acyclic
	Subgraph, we prove that every permutation CSP of arity 3 is approximation resistant.
	</abstract>
	<conf>in CCC 2009</conf>

	<filelink type="PDF">papers/perm-3csp.pdf</filelink>
	<filelink type="Postscript">papers/perm-3csp.ps</filelink>
      </paper>



      <paper id="MakarychevMS10">
	<title>Maximum Quadratic Assignment Problem: Reduction from Maximum Label Cover LP-based Approximation
	Algorithm</title>
	<coauthors><author name="kostya"/> and <author name="maxim"/></coauthors>
	<year>2010</year>

	<abstract> We show that for every positive epsilon, unless NP has randomized polynomial time algorithms, it is
        impossible to approximate the maximum quadratic assignment problem within a factor better than
        $2^{\log^{1-\varepsilon} n}$ by a reduction from the maximum label cover problem. Then, we present an
        $O(\sqrt{n})$-approximation algorithm for the problem based on rounding of the linear programming relaxation
        often used in the state of the art exact algorithms.
	</abstract>
	<conf>submitted</conf>

	<filelink type="PDF">papers/maxqap.pdf</filelink>
	<filelink type="Postscript">papers/maxqap.ps</filelink>
      </paper>

      <paper id="CharikarGHM10">
	<title>Every k-ary Permutation CSP is Approximation Resistant</title>
	<coauthors><author name="moses"/>, <author name="hastad"/> and <author name="venkat"/></coauthors>
	<year>2010</year>

	<abstract>We prove that every permutation CSP of constant arity, k, is approximation resistant.
	</abstract>
	<conf>manuscript under preparation</conf>

      </paper>
      <paper id="KumarMTV10">
	<title>On the Optimality of a Class of LP-based Algorithms</title>
	<coauthors><author name="amit"/>, <author name="madhur"/>, <author name="nisheeth"/></coauthors>
	<year>2010</year>

	<abstract> In this paper, we explain why the simple LP-based rounding algorithm for the Vertex Cover problem is
        optimal assuming the UGC.  Complementing Raghavendra's result, our result generalizes to a class of strict,
        covering/packing type CSPs.  We first write down a natural LP relaxation for this class of problems and present
        a simple rounding algorithm for it.  The key ingredient, then, is a dictatorship test, which is parametrized by
        a rounding-gap example for this LP, whose completeness and soundness are the LP-value and the rounded value
        respectively.
	</abstract>
	<conf>submitted</conf>

	<filelink type="PDF">papers/scsp.pdf</filelink>
	<filelink type="Postscript">papers/scsp.ps</filelink>
      </paper>


    </publications>
  </section>

  <section title="Musings">
    <list>
      <item title="Open Source Web Design">
	<p>A <a href="http://www.oswd.org/">website</a> containing zillions of cool, clean and creative web design
	templates.  All of them are open source; so you are free to download, tweak and publish.  I got quite a few
	ideas from the templates there.  In fact, the color scheme is (loosely) based on
	the <a href="http://www.oswd.org/design/preview/id/3514">Coffee N Cream</a> template there.</p>

	<p>By the way, mine's generated from an <wiki>XHTML</wiki> file along with an <wiki>XSLT</wiki>.  The styles
        exist in a separate <wiki>CSS</wiki> file.  This way, the web page document is clean and not cluttered
        with <wiki>HTML</wiki> tags.  In fact, most modern browsers (<wiki>Firefox</wiki>, Safari, Opera) can directly
        read the files and merge them (Click <a href="index.xhtml">here</a> to check it out).  IE (upto version 7
        atleast) doesn't know how to handle such "complex" things and hence I had to generate the HTML too.</p>

	 <p>Feel free to download the files (<a href="index.xhtml">xhtml</a>, <a href="html-layout.xsl">xsl</a>
	 and <a href="style.css">css</a>), modify and use it for your homepage.  In fact, there are quite a few handly
	 xml tags which might make your life easier.  You can use the <google>xsltproc</google> tool to generate the
	 HTML file.</p>
      </item>

      <item title="AsciiMathML">
	<p>This is a cool javascript written by <a href="http://www1.chapman.edu/~jipsen/">Peter Jipsen</a>.  The script
        goes through the page, converting math expressions like 2^{\sqrt { log n }} into <wiki>MathML</wiki> encoded
        text that looks as cool as $2^{\sqrt { log n }}$.  You will, however, need a MathML enabled web browser
        like <wiki>firefox</wiki> to render it for you.

        I made it into a <wiki>greasemonkey</wiki> script (really trivial transformations) so that mathy pages
        like <a href="http://eccc.hpi-web.de/">ECCC</a> which don't really know about this script still render the
        math.  <a href="stuff/eccc.png">Here</a> is a screenshot of how it
        renders <a href="http://eccc.hpi-web.de/eccc-reports/2008/TR08-018/index.html">this</a> page.  I will try to put
        it up online sometime; in the meantime, please feel free to mail me if you want to try it out.</p>
      </item>

      <item title="Song Bird">
	Coming soon
      </item>
    </list>
  </section> 

  <section title="Friends Swarm">
    <a href="http://people.ee.ethz.ch/~vvinodh/">Vinodh</a>
    <a href="http://people.csail.mit.edu/vmurali/"> Muralidaran</a>
    <a href="http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~murtaza/">Murtaza</a>
    <a href="http://www.physics.rutgers.edu/~deepaki/">Deepak</a>
    <a href="http://nms.lcs.mit.edu/~gshyam/">Shyamnath</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.unc.edu/~vishal/">Vishal</a>
    <a href="http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~avr">Anirudh</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~abadam/">Anirudh</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/prasad/">Prasad</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~dsteurer/">David</a>
    <a href="http://www.rpi.edu/~naraya3">Arunachalam</a>
    <a href="http://www.ece.osu.edu/~harihars/">Srikanth</a>
    <a href="http://www.princeton.edu/~nraghupa/">Narayanan</a>
    <a href="http://www.princeton.edu/~kvijay/">Vijay</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~rarun/">Arun</a>
    <a href="http://www.astro.umd.edu/~skumar/">Sid</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~mhardt/">Moritz</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~bhaskara/">Aditya</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~aravindv/">Aravindan</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.columbia.edu/~arthir/">Arthi</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~csesha/">Seshadhri</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~chlamtac/">Eden</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~haeupler/">Bernhard</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~imukherj/">Indraneel</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.princeton.edu/~sssix/">Sid</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~madhurt/">Madhur</a>
    <a href="http://titan.princeton.edu/People/ashwin.html">Ashwin</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.utexas.edu/~svnaras/">Sudheendra</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~ravishan/">Ravishankar</a>
    <a href="http://www.cs.gatech.edu/~vishal/">Vishal</a>
  </section>

  <section title="Contact">
    <code>
      Address: <br />
      Department of Computer Science <br />
      Princeton University <br />
      35 Olden Street <br />
      Princeton, NJ 08540-5233 <br />           
      <br />
      Email: firstname at cs dot princeton dot edu <br />
    </code>

  </section>


  <!-- <authors> -->
  <!--   <author name="R Chakinala">Ravi Chandra</author>       -->
  <!--   <author name="A Kumarasubramaniam">Abishek Kumarasubramaniam</author>       -->
  <!-- </authors> -->

</document>


<!-- Local Variables: -->
<!-- fill-column: 120 -->
<!-- End: -->
